P R O P E R T Y
THE
THE
TALK TALK
of of theTOWN theTOWN
A remarkable Hutchison property development is
By Andrea Li changing the way Londoners think about their own city
THE FACE OF LONDON Reinsurance headquarters “Gerkin” in This development is much more than a is changing.
the City of London. residential complex. It is designed to be The banks of the River Thames, neglect-
Albion Riverside lies between the his- the heart of a vibrant new neighbour- ed for decades as they drifted into indus-
toric Albert and Battersea bridges, offer- hood, expanding modern urban living trial decay, are again reclaiming their
ing phenomenal views of the Thames. It options in the busy capital. place in the hearts of residents and city
has all the hallmarks of a Lord Foster The widely acclaimed structure, planners alike.
creation: calm, airy interiors encased in a famously dubbed “The Glass Dough- Today, prestigious cultural landmarks
stunning visual exterior. “The alumini- nut”, was designed by the world re- compete for attention with luxury proper-
um and glass curved design gives the nowned and award-winning architect ty developments, especially south of the
building maximum view, as well as Lord Norman Foster, whose other mas- river where the opening of the Tate
ensuring a high degree of privacy,” said terpieces include the passenger terminal Modern art gallery on the site of a decom-
Dr Edmond Ho, Executive Director and at Chek Lap Kok Airport and the HSBC missioned power station has helped tilt
General Manager of Hutchison building in Hong Kong, the Bilbao Metro London’s cultural centre of gravity.
Whampoa Properties (Europe). in Spain and more recently the Swiss Take Albion Riverside, for example.
Completed in early 2004, the building
has set a new standard for urban living, ALBION RIVERSIDE FACT FILE
attracting a strong following among
Address: 8 Hester Road, Battersea, celebrities and the super rich normally
London, SW11 4AP. associated with the affluent strong- Number of units: 196 apartments,
holds of Belgravia, Knightsbridge and including 13 penthouses.
Kensington north of the river. The Size: 1 bedroom (550-750 sq ft) to
Albion Riverside development won the 4 bedrooms (2,000 sq ft). Penthouses:
3-6 bedrooms (3,000-8,500 sq ft). Best Apartment Building award at the
Amenities: Gym, swimming pool,
underground car park, 24-hour concierge
service, private podium garden.
space. “We are negotiating the contract trol options. They can even be accessed Mail on Sunday Design Awards 2005.
now. It is taking a little bit longer than via the Internet or a mobile phone when Suddenly, the South Bank is very
expected because as it is a restaurant, the you are away from home. “The control much in fashion. Boosted by opulent
restaurateur is being very careful to panel allows you to remotely control developments such as Albion Riverside,
ensure the kitchen and designs are what lighting and audio, as well as other types only a 10 minute walk from the shop-
he wants,” Dr Ho said. “I of functions within the ping mecca of King’s Road, the South
hope the deal will be flat,” said Dr Ho. Bank today is emerging as a new oasis of
announced very soon.” Inside, a massive en- culture and style.
The building
It would be wrong to trance hall leads visitors to The sales figures speak volumes for has set a new
suggest that Albion a majestic staircase that Albion Riverside. No flashy advertising
Riverside is a compound takes them up to a glazed campaign or marketing gimmicks were
standard for
created just for the wealthy. cloister running the length needed in high society London where urban living
As part of a new planning of the building, giving word of mouth is far more effective.
commitment to the local access to four lifts and a The flats sold very well, attracting
community, the mixed-use development private riverside garden. Residents can celebrities such as Oscar-winning com-
has two other buildings. A low-rise also make use of an impressive health poser Leslie Bricusse, golfer Colin
apartment building caters for profession- and leisure centre, and a 20-metre Montgomerie and several members of
al key workers such as nurses and teach- indoor pool. the Chelsea soccer team.
ers, while Hutchison Whampoa has its Meanwhile, the retail space has Around 75 per cent of the apartments
European headquarters in another sepa- attracted the likes of major art dealer have so far been bought by UK buyers,
rate low-rise office building on the same Michael Hue-Williams and his spectac- with the remaining going to overseas buy-
site, putting all its European operations ular Albion Gallery is a major attraction ers, Hong Kong included. It goes without
including Ports, 3G, Properties and emphasising the cultural shift away saying that the feng shui is excellent.
Watsons under one roof. from London’s West End. On the more If you have the cash, the going rate for
If Hutchison continues to take up conventional retail front, elite kitchen the largest penthouse duplex, which has
projects on such a scale and employs and bathroom outfitters, Alternative up to six bedrooms, has been priced at a
the same sense of adventure, there is no Plans, have joined a leading personal whopping GBP10 million. Those who can
doubt it will change not just the physi- training facility in the complex.
cal landscape of historical neighbour- Other exciting retail opportu-
hoods but also challenge cultural per- nities are on the way, including
ceptions about them. discussions about the opening of
“While traditionally focusing on devel- a leading restaurant that could
oping residential properties in prime take up 6,500 square feet of floor
London locations, we are also look-
ing at developing retail and office
space,” said Patrick Leung, General
Manager, Hong Kong Develop-
ment and Marketing, Hutchison
Whampoa Properties. “In addition
to London, the company is also
looking at other big cities in the UK
as well as seeking out properties in
other countries.” afford such luxury will remain under the
Lord Foster spell long after they have gone
home and shut the front door. Everything,
from the layout of each apartment,
bespoke bathrooms and kitchens down to
even the lighting and the door handles,
The lap of luxury: interior were designed by Lord Foster’s team.
shots of the award-winning The strong aesthetics aside, every Albion Riverside; home is also equipped with smart tech- The develop- Opposite page:
nology, which makes available a whole ment has the perfect
riverside location. new world of cutting-edge remote con-
SPHERE 31