Annual Report & Action Plan 2021
28/05/2021 Date printed:
Myer Holdings Limited
Website Primary Industry Sector Packaging Supply Chain Position ABN
www.myer.com.au General merchandise and apparel Retailer (point-of-sale) 14 119 085 602
DASHBOARD
RECOMMENDED
TOTAL
CORE
LEADERSHIP OUTCOMES OPERATIONS
SUMMARY INDICATORS
Myer Holdings Limited For the 2021 APCO Annual Report, This Annual Report shows the organisation's performance
has achieved Level 3 (Advanced) for the core criteria. All se against the APCO Packaging Sustainability Framework.
ven core criteria were answered and six out of six recommen
ded criteria were answered. All core criteria. CORE:
All answered recommended criteria. RECOMMENDED:
Sum of all core and answered recommended TOTAL:
criteria.
All criteria that defines leadership on LEADERSHIP:
packaging sustainability.
All criteria that lead to direct improvement in OUTCOMES:
packaging sustainability.
All criteria related to business operations for OPERATIONS:
improving packaging sustainability.
APCO Annual Reporting Tool © 2017­2021 Page 1 of 5
Annual Report & Action Plan 2021
Myer Holdings Limited
REPORTING FRAMEWORK
OVERVIEW LEVEL DESCRIPTION
ABOUT THE APCO FRAMEWORK
The APCO Packaging Sustainability Framework (the Framework) aims to provide a consistent and transparent framework for
assessing and tracking packaging sustainability across organisations. The Framework consists of thirteen independent criter
ia that belong to three separate categories. These categories are (i) Leadership, (ii) Packaging Outcomes and (iii) Operation
s. The diagram above shows the different criteria included within each of these three categories.
There are two types of criteria within the Framework:
• are mandatory and must be answered by all Members when completing the Annual Reporting Tool. Core criteria
• are not mandatory, but Members are encouraged to complete as many recommended criteria as Recommended criteria
possible.
Each criteria is divided into five levels of performance ranging from ‘getting started’ to ‘beyond best practice’. The diagram ab
ove illustrates the key differences between performance levels. Please see www.packagingcovenant.org.au for more informa
tion.
ABOUT APCO
APCO is a co-regulatory, not for profit organisation that partners with government and industry to reduce the harmful impact
of packaging on the Australian environment. APCO promotes sustainable design and recycling initiatives, waste to landfill re
duction activities and circular economy projects. APCO Annual Reports are a key Membership obligation, providing Member
organisations with a transparent method to track their packaging sustainability performance. Annual reporting also supplies A
PCO with valuable data and information to identify industry trends and advancements.
APCO Annual Reporting Tool © 2017­2021 Page 2 of 5
Annual Report & Action Plan 2021
Myer Holdings Limited
COMMITMENTS
The Action Plan detailed below, is a public commitment to advancing packaging sustainability outcomes as a Member of APCO.
Members are encouraged to have a comprehensive internal plan with the steps they will take to fulfill their commitments.
Criteria 1.1 PACKAGING SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY (core)
4. Leading
Having targets that are specific, measureable and time-based. Your organisation is committed to:
Criteria 1.2 CLOSED-LOOP COLLABORATION (core)
3. Advanced
Ensuring that rigorous processes are implemented to collect data for the purpos Your organisation is committed to:
es of monitoring the performance of the closed loop collaboration.
Criteria 1.3 CONSUMER ENGAGEMENT (recommended)
4. Leading
(1) Including packa Your organisation is committed to engaging consumers about packaging sustainability by:
ging information on your website or other publications. (2) Applying on-pack claims or labels. (3) Designing packaging t
o reduce the impacts of consumption. (4) Running a marketing campaign.
Criteria 1.4 INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP (recommended)
3. Advanced
(1) Investigating collaborative or industry leadership actions to improve packagin Your organisation is committed to:
g sustainability. (2) Being involved in a program or initiative to improve packaging sustainability through collaboration a
nd leadership. (3) Being involved in multiple programs or initiatives to improve packaging sustainability through collabor
ation and industry leadership.
Criteria 2.1 PACKAGING DESIGN & PROCUREMENT (core)
4. Leading
Reviewing at least 80% of packaging with reference to the Sustainable Packagin Your organisation is committed to:
g Guidelines (SPG) or equivalent.
APCO Annual Reporting Tool © 2017­2021 Page 3 of 5
Annual Report & Action Plan 2021
Myer Holdings Limited
COMMITMENTS
Criteria 2.2 PACKAGING MATERIALS EFFICIENCY (core)
2. Good progress
Reducing packaging weight or optimising packaging material efficiency in up to 2 Your organisation is committed to:
0% of products.
Criteria 2.3 RECYCLED & RENEWABLE MATERIALS (core)
2. Good progress
Incorporating or optimising recycled and/or renewable content in up to 20% of pr Your organisation is committed to:
oducts.
Criteria 2.4 POST-CONSUMER RECOVERY (core)
1. Getting started
Investigating opportunities to improve recoverability in packaging. Your organisation is committed to:
Criteria 2.5 CONSUMER LABELLING (recommended)
4. Leading
Labelling more than 50% of products with disposal or recovery information. Your organisation is committed to:
Criteria 2.6 PRODUCT-PACKAGING INNOVATION (recommended)
1. Getting started
Investigating opportunities to change the design or delivery of at least one produ Your organisation is committed to:
ct to improve packaging sustainability.
Criteria 3.1 BUSINESS-TO-BUSINESS PACKAGING (core)
1. Getting started
Developing a plan or investigating opportunities to reduce the amount of single-u Your organisation is committed to:
se business-to-business (B2B) packaging used internally or sent to customers.
APCO Annual Reporting Tool © 2017­2021 Page 4 of 5
Annual Report & Action Plan 2021
Myer Holdings Limited
COMMITMENTS
Criteria 3.2 ON-SITE WASTE DIVERSION (recommended)
4. Leading
Investigating opportunities to divert more than 50% of solid waste generated at f Your organisation is committed to:
acilities (factories, warehouses, offices, retail stores etc.) from landfill.
Criteria 3.3 SUPPLY CHAIN INFLUENCE (recommended)
5. Beyond best practice
(1) Communic Your organisation is committed to engaging its supply chain about packaging sustainability by:
ating goals and guidelines. (2) Providing support to suppliers to improve their understanding of goals and strategies. (3)
Collaborating with key suppliers to share knowledge. (4) Having processes to evaluate risks and opportunities for influe
nce. (5) Having business processes to monitor supplier compliance.
SIGN OFF
Nigel Chadwick
Chief Financial Officer
Friday, 28 May 2021
DISCLAIMER
The copyright owners of this report are The Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO) and the University of Technology Sydney (UTS). The data contained within
this report is owned exclusively by APCO. This report (including all text, images and attachments) has been prepared for the exclusive use and benefit of the copyright
holders and each addressee(s) only. The copyright owners give their consent and grant a limited licence to each addressee(s) for the use of this report, in its entirety, to be
reproduced, distributed and communicated to third parties or made public at the discretion of the addressee(s). All other rights are strictly reserved. The addressee(s) is not
permitted to reproduce, distribute or communicate separate subsections, images or individual pages of this report. The report can only be reproduced, distributed or
communicated in full. The information contained in this report does not constitute investment or business advice and addressee(s) should not rely on the information for such
All addressee(s) should obtain their own independent advice before making any financial decisions based on the information included in this report. 2017­2021 ©. purposes.
☎ ✉ Suite 1102, Level 11, 55 Clarence Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000 (02) 8381 3700 apco@packagingcovenant.org.au
APCO Annual Reporting Tool © 2017­2021 Page 5 of 5