LayoutParser: A Unified Toolkit for Deep
Learning Based Document Image Analysis

Zhoujian Shun¹⃝, Bowtie Zhang², Melina Daft², Benjamin Charles Germain
Lee³, Jacob Carlson⁴, and Weiming Li³

¹ Allen Institute for AI
shunzhoujian.org
² MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab
Harvard University
kettleman.lewis@us.ibm.com
bag.cvml@gmail.com
IBM Research
bag2.cvml@gmail.com
big2.gatech.edu
³ Georgia Tech
Abstract. Recent advances in document image analysis (DIA) have been
primarily driven by deep learning (DL) models and yet downstream applications of DL model requires significantly expensive human annotation and
are often deployed in production and validated by further domain experts.
Based on these challenges from industry practice, we work toward efforts to improve scalability and simplify deep learning (DL) model
development in the DIA community. To address the demand of a
standard tools that can increase the generalization of DL model across
multiple-resolution document images, we here provide the layout Parser,
an open-source DL-based toolkit targeting document image understanding. Though many previous researches on document image analysis has published well-founded models to systematically improve document understanding
tasks. layout Parser uses this suite of capabilities at [arXiv link citation] to provide a comprehensive and generalized toolkit for sharing both pre-trained models and full document digital and text pipeline.

In this toolkit we implemented layout Parser, an open-source toolkit for document image understanding and its full design and documentation suite. This paper provides various tools and facilities
paper-level efforts to improve the state-of-the-art models. This
toolkit implements document image analysis systems at its core. layout Parser
is a open-source toolkit for document image understanding. layout Parser
provides a web-based portal and API framework with large scale pre-trained
models, a set of data instances, character recognition, and many other document processing tools. The layout Parser library (https://github.com/Layout-Parser/layout-parser) is an open-source and comprehensive library for sharing both pre-trained models and full downstream document image understanding pipeline.

Keywords: Document Image Analysis · Deep Learning · Layout Understanding ·
Character Recognition · Open Source · Deep Learning

1    Introduction

Deep Learning(DL)-based approaches are the state-of-the-art for a wide range of
document image analysis (DIA) tasks including document image classification [1],

---

Z. Shun et al

[R], layout detection [R], table detection [R], and scene text detection [1].
A growing number of the DL-based framework is published which includes many important models [1]. In the past, these models came from a limited set of approaches
of important research institutions. DL, has the potential to transform DIA pipelines and benefit a broad spectrum of large-scale document digitalization projects.

Yet advances in DL-based methods, DL models are notoriously cumbersome for end users and extraction. Existing models are developed with different
assumptions about data and different output formats, which can present
challenges to implementation details [1]. it can be a time-consuming and
frustrating experience to debug, reproduce, and adapt existing models to DIA
system development. Moreover, the main limitation on DIA systems is [3]
the technical background to implement them from scratch. [1] Document image
contains diverse layouts and documents patterns across domains, and implemented
implementation-aware are required to implement DIA systems [1]. Moreover,
full-fledged infrastructure for easily creating the target document image datasets
and for quickly or re-training the models. [3] DIA simply requires a continued
training from pre-existing models and adaptation with minimal DL expertise,
DL models and then perform further document analysis in separate processes,
and these pipelines are not documented in any reusable fashion [1] so we
have to rewrite systems in each DIA systems development process. [1]. This [2]
full pipeline are represented and leads them to novel significant resources in
DIA project.

With a view to address these challenges, we introduce layout Parser, a unified open-source DL toolkit to support DIA tasks (Section [2]).
layout Parser consists of the following components:
1. layout Parser: a collection of document DL models for layout detection,
recognition, and other DIA tasks (Section [3])
2. The repository of pre-trained neural network models (Model Zoo) that
simplifies model applications
3. Comprehensive tools for efficient document image data annotation and model
training to support different levels of customization
4. Integrated visualization modules to support document image exploration, annotation, and discussion of DIA models and pipelines, to promote availability,
and reproducibility, and reusability (Section [3])

In this work, we leverage strong deep learning DL models for document image analysis
(generalizability and versatility, and can be easily installed via pip. Its convenient
interface for handling document image data can be seamlessly integrated with
existing DL frameworks like Keras and TensorFlow. In this section, we try to
tutorials, we hope this tool will benefit a variety of end-users, and will lead to
software solutions in both industry and academic research.

We further demonstrated layout Parser as a modular tool for document image
availability in other disciplines like the natural language processing [3] and com-
puter vision [R], but with a focus on unique challenges in DIA. We show
the application of layout Parser in a wide range of practical applications. [2]