Terms and Conditions of Sale
Lead Times
Order Acceptance
Clear-Vu Lighting (CVL) offers to sell and deliver lighting products in Lead times are estimates based on material availability and production
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein. Acceptance of this offer schedule at time of quotation and are subject to change between
is expressly limited to such terms. CVL hereby objects to and rejects any additional quotation and date order is actually placed and released. While we strive
or alternative terms proposed by Buyer, including those contained in Buyer’s to meet estimated due dates or quoted lead times, many components come
purchase order, unless CVL expressly agrees to such terms in writing. All orders from global sources and domestic vendors and delays occasionally occur.
are subject to credit approval and acceptance by CVL. Credit availability is CVL will not be liable for any consequential damages, penalties or express
granted at the discretion of CVL. We reserve the right to refuse to manufacture freight charges due to delays.
any item that is not in stock, or in the event that the order is too small to run on a
production basis. Terms of Payment
Under no circumstances will CVL accept any purchase orders that include possible
penalties of any type; including, but not limited to: Late deliveries, damage in If CVL extends credit to Buyer, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from
transit, incomplete orders, or orders requested with specific brand and model date of invoice, unless otherwise stated on quotation. CVL may change or
components unless expressly agreed to in writing on our order quote or withdraw credit amounts or payment terms at any time for any reason. If the
confirmation. We reserve the right to substitute equivalent functioning products are delivered in installments, Buyer shall pay for each installment in
component parts as needed. accordance with the above payment terms. No discounts of any kind will be
accepted on any shipping charges or additional surcharges as assessed by the
trucking companies. Pricing
If Buyer fails to make any payment when due, CVL reserves the right to suspend
or cancel performance under any agreements in which CVL has extended credit
Prices and specifications are subject to change without notice. If the prices of
to Buyer. Suspension of performance may result in rescheduling delays. If, in
fuels, metals, raw materials, equipment or other production costs increase
CVL’s judgement, Buyer’s financial condition does not justify the payment terms significantly, CVL shall have the right, and Buyer shall have the obligation to
specified herein, CVL reserves the right to terminate the sales contract unless renegotiate the price of all products not yet shipped. If an agreement is not
Buyer immediately pays for all products that have been delivered and pays reached, CVL reserves the right to terminate any unshipped orders without
in advance for all products to be delivered. Termination in accordance with this liability.
clause shall not affect CVL’s right to pursue any other available remedies including
but not limited to collection agencies, attorney fees, and associated expenses. Tariffs
No deductions from invoices will be allowed without authorization, in writing,
The U.S. Government has been imposing tariffs on certain imported from CVL maintains the right to charge a 1.5% per month service charge on all
parts and materials. As notice is typically ‘short term’, prices may be adjusted to past due balances, as well as reasonable collection costs and fees, including but not
reflect the additional costs associated to the component parts affected by these limited to attorney, filing fees, and other associated costs of collection. The laws
tariffs. We will notify the customer in the event that price adjustments of the STATE OF NEW YORK shall be applicable to all suits arising between CVL
are required, and customer may cancel the order if additional costs are and the Buyer, and in the event of litigation, the venue will be Suffolk County, New
declined. York.
CVL does not allow discounts on credit card payments.
Quotations, Data Sheets and Specifications
Advance Deposit Payments
Prices are firm for thirty (30) days unless otherwise specified. All quotes on equals
substituted by CVL require customer approval after submittal of cuts. We cannot
Any advance payments for orders shipped in installments will be applied to guarantee approval. CVL is not responsible for misinterpretation. Specifications
the final shipment(s) only. and dimensions of all products are subject to normal manufacturing tolerances
and may change without prior notice. Fixture design and specification sheets may
be updated and/or modified as necessary and it is the Buyer’s responsibility to Freight
obtain from CVL and verify the latest catalog sheets to confirm dimensions,
mounting details, knockouts, holes etc... CVL will not be responsible for any costs
associated with non-conformity to outdated published material, including that All prices F.O.B. factory - Central Islip, New York unless otherwise stated
obtained from CVL's website. Website listings and specification sheets are merely on CVL issued order quotation or acknowledgement. Any orders quoted
indicative of what we offer for sale. This does not necessarily mean that all with pre-paid freight charges must be ordered in no less than
items are carried in stock. quoted quantities and destination. Please contact your local CVL sales
agent or the factory for terms and order value requirements.
Certain items including but not limited to replacement parts and Lamps, Tubes and Mounting Hardware
lamps are excluded from any freight policy.
Lamps, LED tubes, mounting hardware and accessories are not included Additional freight charges: Certain destinations such as residential,
in pricing unless specifically listed as included on specification sheet in effect at schools, colleges and universities, rural locations and others may require the use
time of order, or indicated on quotation and accepted purchase order. of special delivery equipment including but not limited to smaller size trucks,
trucks equipped with lift gates, delivery sites requiring appointments or special
delivery times. Carriers may impose additional charges for redelivery, refused Hold Orders shipments, reconsignment, incorrect or incomplete delivery address supplied to
CVL, storage, and carrier shipment audits due to irregular size pallets or
dimensional weight. These charges will be invoiced by CVL to the Buyer. Parts for orders marked “Hold for Release” or “Hold for Shipping Date” will not Please notify your CVL representative of any known delivery requirements at be manufactured or components purchased until firm release date is provided. time of quotation or order placement. We reserve the right to renegotiate pricing at time of release if the Normal transportation costs will be prepaid and added to invoice release extends beyond the stipulated time on our quotation and/or unless otherwise stated on purchase order. Customer orders requesting specific acknowledgement. carriers or collect or third party billing must clearly state these requirements
on each purchase order. Orders requiring special or custom packaging Cancellations including but not limited to special size pallets, double boxing,
crating or other special requirements may incur additional packaging
charges. As most items are built to order, cancellations will only be accepted if parts
Important note: Shipping companies are starting to assess have not been specifically purchased or produced. Cancellation charges, vendor
charges based on ‘dimensional weight’ and not only actual weight. Irregular or restock fees, and any costs to return purchased parts to our vendors will be
oversized pallets which reduce their capacity yield may incur additional assessed as applicable. If production has commenced, we reserve the right to
charges which may be invoiced after receipt. At times, carriers may assess fees to cover work completed and costs to dismantle and restock the
repack or restack pallets for better space utilization. CVL cannot parts. If an order is canceled after shipment or refused at destination, restocking
assume responsibility for damage in shipping based on improper carrier charges of up to 100% of warehousing fees, delivery and return costs will be
handling. charged to the customer.
CLEAR-VU LIGHTING 1150 Motor Central Pkwy, Islip, NY 11722 | Tel (516) 941-3737
Fax (516) 333-7695 | www.clearvulighting.com
Inspection Upon Receipt Errors, Omissions and Style Changes
CVL
All catalog and illustrative material from has been carefully
For shipments using prepaid freight from
CVL:
Title to the material transfers
proofread. We assume no responsibility if an error or an omission does
the destination recipient upon carrier pickup. Every palletized shipment to
occur. In the event that a style is changed, or it becomes necessary to use
CVL
made by is photographed prior to being loaded. Every pallet is clearly
parts or materials other than shown on the respective catalog data sheet,
labeled with receiver inspection instructions which state that ANY signs of
we reserve the right to ship the item closest to the original designation.
damage or mishandling MUST be noted on the carrier’s bill of lading PRIOR to
the truck driver’s departure from the premises. The label also provides our email
address to send photos of any damage to. Merely signing and stating ‘subject to Field Service and Repair
CVL inspection’ is not sufficient and subsequent claims will not be honored. may
assist in the filing of freight claims and in no way can accept any responsibility for
damages. Carrier liability will ONLY cover damage that is clearly stated and Our standard warranty terms specifically exclude any and all charges for labor.
signed for as such on the carrier bill of lading at the time of delivery. Any concealed However, if we elect to provide field inspection or repair, it will be done strictly
CVL damage must be reported to within 24 hours of delivery. DO NOT DISPOSE as a courtesy and convenience to the end user. It is the facility’s responsibility
OF ANY DAMAGED GOODS UNTIL INSTRUCTED TO DO SO BY CVL.
to identify specific products and locations of products claimed defective, provide
Failure to follow these instructions will forfeit any rights to claim for damage safe accessibility to the lighting equipment (including providing any ladders,
through the carrier of CVL.
scaffolds, or other necessary equipment) as well as provide adequate protection
Any delivery receipts signed for with no damages or shortages noted on to prevent damage to the building or its interior, obtain union or other cooperation
the bill of lading prior to driver leaving the premises are deemed to be regarding free access to the site for field service personnel and turn power
accepted by the recipient as free and clear of any carrier liability or claims. on and off as required. Any field service work will be performed only during
CVL normal weekday working hours. reserves the right to supply non-union
Reshipment for material signed for as damaged at time of delivery: We will CVL labor as necessary to provide any warranty related repairs. will not be
make every effort to ship replacement material in a timely manner but cannot responsible for any costs incurred in providing access to the lighting equipment.
guarantee immediate availability or incur any expedited freight charges whatsoever. Our performance of any services is in no way an extension of our liability beyond
our Terms and Conditions of Sale and Limited Warranty contained herein.
For shipments using customer specified carrier: Any and all claims must be filed
CVL directly with the carrier. accepts no responsibility for damage or shortages
using any customer specified or third party carriers. Return Goods
Recipient must verify count at time of delivery prior to signing delivery
receipt. Any claims for shortage MUST be noted on the carrier’s bill of lading.
returned without prior authorization and will be refused No merchandise may be
at loading dock if the Return Goods Authorization (RGA) Number is not clearly
Small parcel shipments sent via UPS, FedEX or similar services may include
marked on the outside of the carton(s). An RGA Number is valid for thirty (30)
additional packaging or handling charges in addition to the actual shipping
days only. Material must be shipped prepaid. Refunds will be issued in the
cost. Any items received as damaged should be signed for as such. These CVL form of credit toward future purchases at only. No refund checks will be
terms also apply to shipments made on customer’s shipping account. CVL issued. Material must be received by in good condition, within three (3)
months of original invoice date. There will be a deduction for freight out and
Routing is at the discretion of CVL. If customer will assume any additional the return is subject to a minimum 25% restocking fee as well as a reconditioning
CVL charges, will ship in the manner selected by the customer. Fuel or other charge if necessary and/or applicable. Special finishes or custom orders may
carrier assessed surcharges added by the carrier will be passed on to the purchaser NOT be returned. Fixtures returned for repair, replacement or credit will not be
and are not subject to any freight policy. Fuel and shipping surcharges are to accepted if they are defaced in any way (ie: permanent marker, ink or any CVL be paid NET and are not discountable for any reason. is not other similar means). Defective units should be labeled with tape or other easily
responsible for the duties and taxes on items shipped out of the United States. removable tag.
The duties, taxes and Custom fees are the sole responsibility of the These terms and warranty may be modified at any time without
intended consignee. Orders shipped out of the United States may take an
notice and such modification will only be effective to any products additional amount of time for delivery due to Customs clearance. All shipments
CVL purchased after the modification effective date. LED assumes that incur storage charges due to delays in providing the freight carrier with the
necessary information and contact information necessary to clear Customs no responsibility for misapplication of fixtures.
are the responsibility of the consignee. Unauthorized deductions will be
charged back to the consignee.
CVL will not be liable for ANY penalties or charge backs resulting from delayed
shipments regardless of cause.
This 8.5” x 11” label is on EVERY palletized shipment from CVL.
CLEAR-VU LIGHTING 1150 Motor Central Pkwy, Islip, NY 11722 | Tel (516) 941-3737
Fax (516) 333-7695 | www.clearvulighting.com
Limited Warranty
LED Fluorescent
CVL
warrants its commercial lighting fixtures containing light emitting diodes All fluorescent equipment is warranted for a period of one year.
(LED) to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period of five The warranty specifically excludes the following: Any defects or failures caused
(5) years from date of shipment from factory unless otherwise noted on individual by improper installation; physical damage of any kind; water damage in fixtures
CVL
specification sheets and/or other published documents, subject to latest labeled for dry or damp location; damage due to water submersion or high pressure
applicable revision date. LED modules and boards will be considered defective wash-down outside the scope of specific fixture IP rating; damage due to cleaning
in material or workmanship only if a total of 15% or more of the individual LEDs materials, harsh chemicals or reactive cleaning agents; damage from exposure to
fail to illuminate on any one board or module. All lighting products are intended to Chlorine, Bromine or other hazardous chemicals or gases; insect or animal damage;
be installed by qualified licensed electricians. vandalism; induced vibration; smoke or fire; acts of nature; faulty wire connections,
reversed polarity, improper grounding, connection to supply voltage other than listed
The warranty specifically excludes the following: Any defects or failures caused on product label, input voltage out of tolerance (-10%/+5%), voltage spikes, dips or
by improper installation; physical damage of any kind; water damage in fixtures surges; excessive switching; electrical or physical damage attributable to lightning
labeled for dry or damp location; damage due to water submersion or high strike; exposure to excessive ambient temperatures outside the recommended
pressure wash-down outside the scope of specific fixture IP rating; damage due operating range (electric components have operating temperature limits, consult
to cleaning materials, harsh chemicals or reactive cleaning agents; damage from factory for specific model suitability where ambient temperatures will exceed
exposure to Chlorine, Bromine or other hazardous chemicals or gases; insect 25˚C/77˚F or lower than 0˚C/32˚F); the use of any insulation within 3” of recessed
or animal damage; vandalism; induced vibration; smoke or fire; acts of nature; fixtures, unless fixture is specifically labeled “type IC”; fault, negligence or unauthorized
faulty wire connections, reversed polarity, improper grounding, connection to modifications or change of original wiring or components; damage caused by any
supply voltage other than listed on product label, input voltage out of tolerance third party parts or controls; failure to comply with applicable codes or standards.
(-10%/+5%), voltage spikes, dips or surges; excessive switching; electrical or
physical damage attributable to lightning strike; exposure to excessive ambient Warranty excludes physical damage to all lenses, diffusers and louvers. A
temperatures outside the recommended operating range (electrical components replacement part will be furnished in exchange for any part in a fixture, excluding
have operating temperature limits, consult factory for specific model suitability lamps, which under normal use and service proves defective within one year
where ambient temperatures will exceed 25˚C/77˚F or lower than 0˚C/32˚F); (units after purchase. All lighting fixtures should be inspected prior to installation.
with emergency battery packs should not be installed where ambient temperature
suitability for a specific application. Please is below 0˚C/32˚F) the use of any insulation within 3” of recessed fixtures, It is up to the end user to confirm
consult if fixtures are to be mounted in areas of extreme high or low unless fixture is specifically labeled “type IC”; fault, negligence or unauthorized factory
ambient temperatures. Some fixtures are intended for suspended mounting modifications or change of original wiring or components; damage caused by any
only to ensure proper operation. Failures due to misapplication of product are third party parts or controls; failure to comply with applicable codes or standards.
not covered under any warranty. For any covered failures under this
application. Please warranty, CVL, at its sole discretion will repair or provide replacement of the It is up to the end user to confirm suitability for a specific
consult product or defective part(s) with positively no labor or equipment if fixtures are to be mounted in areas outside the ambient factory
CVL allowance unless specifically authorized in writing by before work is begun. temperature ranges stated above. Some fixtures are intended for suspended
This statement does not imply that labor or equipment allowance will be mounting only to assure proper operation. Failures due to misapplication of
considered or authorized. Charge backs or deductions for unauthorized product are not covered under any warranty. For any covered failures under
repairs will not be accepted. this warranty, CVL, at its sole discretion, will repair or provide replacement of
This warranty applies only to the original end user installation location and may the product or defective part(s) with positively no labor or equipment allowance
CVL not be transferred. Warranty claims must be made within 15 days of discovery unless specifically authorized in writing by before work is begun. This
CVL of defect or failure to an authorized Lighting representative who will statement does not imply that labor or equipment allowance will be considered or
submit claim to factory. Parts will not be accepted without prior authorization authorized. Charge backs or deductions for unauthorized repairs will not
CVL and Return Authorization Number issued by will not be responsible for the be accepted.
CVL costs or expenses associated with the return of product(s) to the factory. This warranty applies only to the original end user installation location and may not
or its Vendors will bear the cost for return shipment of replacement parts to the be transferred. Warranty claims must be made within 15 days of discovery of
CVL customer. Special note pertaining to plastic parts: Environmental conditions may defect or failure to an authorized representative who will submit claim to
affect certain plastics used as diffusers in lighting fixtures and these parts are not factory. Parts returns will not be accepted without prior authorization and
CVL warranted against yellowing or deterioration which may occur over time due to Return Goods Authorization (RGA) Number issued by will not be responsible
CVL normal product aging or exposure to certain chemicals, vapors and airborne for the costs or expenses associated with the return of product(s) to the factory.
contaminants that can cause damage such as cracking, crazing, deterioration or or its Vendors will bear the cost for return shipment of replacement parts to the
mechanical failure. It is up to the end user to determine suitability for materials in customer.
the final end use. A list of acceptable and unacceptable environmental chemical
CVL materials is available upon request. will not be liable for any Special note pertaining to plastic parts: Environmental conditions may affect certain
consequential, incidental indirect or punitive damages or charges even if plastics used as diffusers in lighting fixtures and these parts are not warranted against
informed of the possibility of such damages, whether as the result of breach of deterioration which may occur over time due to normal product aging yellowing or
contract, warranty, tort (including negligence), loss of time, revenue, profit, or exposure to certain chemicals, vapors and airborne contaminants that can cause
productivity, downtime or any other charges including but not limited to: labor, damage such as cracking, crazing, deterioration or mechanical failure. It is up to the
equipment rental, downtime cost, use of property, loss of business or any end user to determine suitability for materials in the final end use. A list of acceptable
inconvenience arising out of any failure or breach of the warranty or obligations under and unacceptable environmental chemical materials is available upon request or
CVL such warranty. makes no claims or warranty with regard to minimum useful life at www.clearvulighting.com under the technical help tab or visit: https://
or performance of any material or product past the product’s stated limited bit.ly/2YYhXSX.
CVL warranty. will not be liable for any consequential, incidental indirect or punitive
damages or charges even if informed of the possibility of such damages, whether Driver and Ballast Warranty
the result of breach of contract, warranty, tort (including negligence), loss of time, as
revenue, productivity, downtime or any other charges including but not limited profit, The ballasts and drivers used by our Company are those of recognized
to: labor, equipment rental, downtime cost, use of property, loss of business or any their respective manufacturer only. Orders manufacturers and are warranted by
inconvenience arising out of any failure or breach of the warranty or obligations under calling for specific brand names or models of ballasts or drivers will be handled on a
CVL such warranty. makes no claims or warranty with regard to minimum useful life quotation basis only. Any claims for defects in ballasts or drivers occurring
or performance of any material or product past the product’s stated limited outside of CVL's limited warranty period should be directed to the respective
warranty. ballast or driver manufacturer. Copies of manufacturer’s warranties are available
CVL upon request. In no event shall accept any charge backs or labor invoices These terms and warranty may be modified at any time without
without express written consent from the factory prior to any work being performed. notice and such modification will only be effective to any products
Should there be a ballast or driver failure within CVL’s warranty period, advise CVL purchased after the modification effective date. LED assumes CVL immediately and we will notify the ballast or driver manufacturer of the no responsibility for misapplication of fixtures. difficulty. They in turn will notify you as to disposition of this problem. Do not
proceed with repairs until authorization is received from the ballast or driver All lighting products are intended to be installed by qualified licensed manufacturer. electricians. All of our drivers and ballasts are labeled by us. Parts returned for replacement
CVL without label will not be accepted. Wire leads on returned parts MUST be a
minimum of six inches (6”) long for testing. Drivers or ballasts with wire leads cut
shorter than six inches (6”) will not be accepted for warranty replacement. We will
CVL only accept defective ballasts or drivers for exchange within the warranty EFFECTIVE 08/2020
period (1 year for fluorescent, 5 years for LED) from date of shipment from our factory.
CLEAR-VU LIGHTING 1150 Motor Central Pkwy, Islip, NY 11722 | Tel (516) 941-3737
Fax (516) 333-7695 | www.clearvulighting.com