Reflowable EPUB 3 Conformance Test Document: 0100
Status of this Document
This publication is currently considered [UNDER DEVELOPMENT] by the IDPF.
This publication is part of version X.X of the EPUB 3.0 Compliance Test Suite released on TBD.
Before using this publication to evaluate reading systems, testers are strongly encouraged to verify that they have the latest release by checking the current release version and date of the test suite at TBD
This publication is one of several that currently comprise the EPUB 3 conformance test suite for reflowable content. The complete test suite includes all of the following publications:
.
About this Document
This document focuses on human-evaluated binary (pass/fail) tests in a reflowable context. Tests for fixed-layout content and other individual tests that require a dedicated epub file are available in additional sibling documents; refer to the test suite wiki (https://github.com/mgylling/epub-testsuite/wiki/Overview) for additional information.
Conventions
The following conventions are used throughout the document:
1. Locating a test
Tests for required Reading System functionality are preceded by the label: [REQUIRED]
Tests for optional Reading System functionality are preceded by the label: [OPTIONAL]
2. Performing the test
Each test includes a description of its purpose followed by the actual test statement, which can always be evaluated to true or false. These statements typically have the form: "If [some condition], the test passes".
3. Scoring in the results form
@@@TODO provide info on where to get the results form
Table of Contents
Front page
Table of Contents
XHTML Content Documents 
MathML 
Rendering
CSS Styling of math
CSS Styling of mo
CSS Styling of mi
CSS Styling of mn
Horizontal stretch, mover, munder, and mspace elements
Testing mtable with colspan and rowspan attributes, Hebrew and Script fonts
BiDi, RTL and Arabic alphabets
Elementary math: long division notation
Fallbacks 
epub:switch 
Support
MathML Embedding
Guide
Table of Contents
MathML
[REQUIRED] mathml-010 Rendering
Tests whether MathML equation rendering is supported.
If the preceding equations are not presented as linear text (e.g., x=-b±b2-4ac2a), the test passes.
[OPTIONAL] mathml-020 CSS Styling of the math element
Tests whether basic CSS styling of MathML is supported on the math element.
The test passes if the equation has a yellow background and a dashed border.
If the reading system does not have a viewport, or does not support CSS styles, this test should be marked Not Supported.
[OPTIONAL] mathml-021 CSS Styling of the mo element
Tests whether basic CSS styling of MathML is supported on the mo element.
The test passes if the operators are enlarged relative to the other symbols and numbers.
If the reading system does not have a viewport, or does not support CSS styles, this test should be marked Not Supported.
[OPTIONAL] mathml-022 CSS Styling of the mi element
Tests whether basic CSS styling of MathML is supported on the mi element.
The test passes if the identifiers are bolded and blue.
If the reading system does not have a viewport, or does not support CSS styles, this test should be marked Not Supported.
[OPTIONAL] mathml-023 CSS Styling of the mn element
Tests whether basic CSS styling of MathML is supported on the mn element.
The test passes if the number 2 is italicized and blue.
If the reading system does not have a viewport, or does not support CSS styles, this test should be marked Not Supported.
[REQUIRED] mathml-024Horizontal stretch, mover, munder, and mspace elements
Tests whether horizontal stretch, mover, munder, mspace elements are supported.
The test passes if the rendering looks like .
[REQUIRED] mathml-025Testing mtable with colspan and rowspan attributes, Hebrew and Script fonts
Tests whether mtable with colspan and mspace attributes (column and row spanning) are supported; uses Hebrew and Script alphabets.
The test passes if the rendering looks like Cichoń's Diagram: .
[REQUIRED] mathml-026BiDi, RTL and Arabic alphabets
Tests whether right-to-left and Arabic alphabets are supported.
The test passes if the rendering looks like the following image: 
[REQUIRED] mathml-027Elementary math: long division notation
Tests whether mlongdiv elements (from elementary math) are supported.
The test passes if the rendering looks like the following image: .
epub:switch
[REQUIRED] switch-010 Support
Tests whether the epub:switch element is supported.
FAIL 
PASS 
If only the word "PASS" is rendered before this paragraph, the test passes. If both "PASS" and "FAIL" are rendered, or neither "PASS" nor "FAIL" is rendered, the test fails.
[OPTIONAL] switch-020 MathML Embedding
Tests whether the MathML namespace is recognized when used in an epub:case element.
FAIL
If a MathML equation is rendered before this paragraph, the test passes.
If test switch-010 did not pass, this test should be marked Not Supported.
